

interview question on os and linux platform.

1)What do you mean by operating system and its basic function ?
=> OS is software programme that manages and handles computer resourcess such as hardware and software.
   basic functions -> 
   - memory management and process management.
   - provide user interface to user.
   - file management and device management.
   - scheduling the resources and jobs.
   - error detection.
   - Security.
   
2)Why os is important?
=> os is important part of computor system it provides interction to user to computer programme installed on it.
   It also helps to comunicate with hardaware and also mantained balance between hardware and cpu.
   It also provides service and platform to user to run programme on it.
   
3) What is the main purpose of os?
   the main purpose of os is memory mangement , process management , user programme interaction with application istalled on it.
   and operation of all hardaware and software.
   
   Types of OS. 
   batch os -> payroll os and trasaction process.
   multiprogramme os -> windows os ans unix os 
   timesharing os -> multics
   Distrubuted os -> LOCUS.
   realtime os -> PSOS and VRTX 
   
   
4) What are the benifites of mutiprocessor system?
=> It known as computer system that contained 2 or more cpu's 
   The system processing multiple computer programme at same time with 2 or more cpus by sharing same memory.
   benifites of the multiprocess system is it can handle multiple comuputer programme at single unit time with sharing resources.
   
5)What is RAID and its different leveles?
  REDUNDANT ARRAYS OF INDEPENDENT DISK this method is used store data on multiple disk thats way it is consider
  as data storage virtulization disk technology combines multiple disk.
  It simply balances data protection, system performance and storage space.
  It increase system performance by increasing storage capcity.
  Main purpose is to acheive data redundancy to reduce data loss.  

  There 6 levels of RAID 
  RAID 0 - non redundant level : data store on multiple disk but disk failuer can affect the system perporformance.
  RAID 1 - Mirroring and duplexing : duplication on of data on multiple disk so recovery of data is easy.
  RAID 2 - bit level error correcting code : error of data is checke at every bit level uses hamming code parity checked 
           uses 2 disk 1 for store bits of each word and another is used to save parity bit.
  RAID 3 - byte interleved parity  : we store the parity bits in disk section and the information in dedicated parity section.
  RAID 4 - block interleved parity : instead of duplication of data it uses parity bit apporch to reconstruct the lost data.
  RAID 5 - block interleved distributed parity : same as block but only difference is parity rotate among the drives.
           more than 2 disk failuer can not recover the data.
  RAID 6 - P+Q redundancy : it uses more than one disk failuer in this case paire of independent parities are generated and store on disk.

6)What is GUI?
=> grafical user interface created for interact with os insted using of command line.
   very user friendly instead of memorising the command.
   
7)What is the pipe when it use?
=> the pipe is nothing but interconnection of 2 or more process which are interelated to each other.
   one process can send information such as output  to another programme process using pipes.
   
8)What are the different kind of signal that are possible on semafore?
=> wait() and signal().

9)What is bootstrap programme in OS?
=>It is the programme that initilize the OS during the startup. means first code executed when computer system started.
  os known as booting. it store on fix location on memory 
  It locates the karnel and load it on main memory after that start its execuation.

10)What is demand paging?
=> it is the process in which pages are loade on memory on demand.
   This method is completely virtual memory
   the pages are loaded on memory when programme execution refered to memory location of page.
   attamp to access the page which is required.
   if it is not available/fault then page fault trap occurs. 
   
11)What is RTOS ?
=>Real time operating system which designed for real time application. 
  in which data processing should be done in fixed and small interval.
  It occupise less memory and less resources.
 

















   